# SQL Server Service

This exercise is designed to mount a volume to persist data from a Docker service in local host with [the azure sql edge](https://hub.docker.com/r/microsoft/azure-sql-edge) image. 

## Subject

Azure sql edge is a cloud-based relational database service.

## Exercise

Pull and run the Azure sql edge image twice as a background service.

- The first service should persist data in a docker volume and run service on port 1433.
- The second service should persist data in a mounted directory from the host and run service on port 1434.

Inspirate from the [docker run doc.](https://docs.docker.com/reference/cli/docker/container/run/), the [azure sql edge image doc.](https://hub.docker.com/r/microsoft/azure-sql-edge) and the [starter-kit](../000-starter-kit/README.md) if needed.

<details>
  <summary>Solution</summary>

### With a volume

```shell
docker volume create sqlsrv-data
docker run -d -p 1433:1433 --name sqlsrv -v sqlsrv-data:/var/opt/mssql mcr.microsoft.com/azure-sql-edge
```

The command docker volume create sqlsrv-data is used to create a Docker volume named sqlsrv-data.
- `docker volume create`: This is the Docker command to create a new volume.
- `sqlsrv-data`: This is the name of the volume being created.

```shell
docker run -d -p 1433:1433 --name sqlsrv -v sqlsrv-data:/var/opt/mssql mcr.microsoft.com/azure-sql-edge
```

The command is used to run a Docker container with the Azure SQL Edge image. Here is a breakdown of the command:
- `docker run`: This is the Docker command to run a new container.
- `-d`: Runs the container in detached mode (in the background).
- `-p 1433:1433`: Maps port 1433 of the container to port 1433 of the host. This allows applications on the host to access the SQL Server in the container using port 1433.
- `--name sqlsrv`: Assigns the name "sqlsrv" to the container for easier identification.
- `-v sqlsrv-data`:/var/opt/mssql: Mounts the Docker volume sqlsrv-data to the /var/opt/mssql directory inside the container. This is used to persist data generated by the SQL Server.
- `mcr.microsoft.com/azure-sql-edge`: Specifies the Docker image to use for the container, which is the Azure SQL Edge image from Microsoft's container registry.

### With a mounted directory from host

```shell
docker run -d -p 1434:1433 --name sqlsrv -v /path/to/host/directory:/var/opt/mssql -e 'ACCEPT_EULA=1' -e 'MSSQL_SA_PASSWORD=yourStrong(!)Password' mcr.microsoft.com/azure-sql-edge
```

The command is used to run a Docker container with the Azure SQL Edge image, persisting data in a mounted directory from the host. Here is a breakdown of the command:
- `docker run`: This is the Docker command to run a new container.
- `-d`: Runs the container in detached mode (in the background).
- `-p 1434:1433`: Maps port 1433 of the container to port 1434 of the host. This allows applications on the host to access the SQL Server in the container using port 1434.
- `--name sqlsrv`: Assigns the name "sqlsrv" to the container for easier identification.
- `-v /path/to/host/directory:/var/opt/mssql`: Mounts the host directory `/path/to/host/directory` to the `/var/opt/mssql` directory inside the container. This is used to persist data generated by the SQL Server.
- `-e 'ACCEPT_EULA=1'`: Sets the environment variable `ACCEPT_EULA` to 1, which is required to accept the end-user license agreement.
- `-e 'MSSQL_SA_PASSWORD=yourStrong(!)Password'`: Sets the environment variable `MSSQL_SA_PASSWORD` to `yourStrong(!)Password`, which is required to set the SA (system administrator) password for the SQL Server.
- `mcr.microsoft.com/azure-sql-edge`: Specifies the Docker image to use for the container, which is the Azure SQL Edge image from Microsoft's container registry.
</details>
